To activate MIDI Learn, Ctrl-right-click on any user interface control.
A pop-up window will detail the control selected, or a message pop-up
will indicate that it is not learnable.

FIGURE: 1.5.0/Learning-30amp.png
FIGURE: 1.5.0/Learning-Mods.png
FIGURE: 1.5.0/Learning-No.png

A message will also appear in the console window/CLI.

After turning on learn, the first physical controller moved, or CC message sent
will be locked in, and one will see the user-interface knob or slider move in
synchrony with the physical control. The pop-up window will disappear, and the
console message "Learned" appears, and a line underneath with exactly what
control was caught.

Now use the 'Yoshimi' drop-down menu and click on 'Midi Learn',
to see a new window displaying the recently-learned controller. Along with a
number of settings, it shows text with precise details of this complete
action.

Also shown is an 'activity' LED that flickers when the associated
CC/channel is received.

FIGURE: 1.5.0/MidiLearn.png

Editor settings available:

Mute.
Disables the MIDI Learn control specified by the corresponding line of
settings.

CC.
Incoming CC.
Provides the value of the controller that is learned.
For example, a value of 7 indicates that the control value affects the main
volume of 'Yoshimi'.

Chan.
Incoming channel number.

Min and Max.
Provides the minimum and maximum incoming values.
If Min is greater than Max,
this reverses the control direction).

Limit.
Limiter versus compression.
The Min/Max range can either be in the style of a limiter or a compression.

Block.
Specifies blocking of all later actions on the same CC/channel pair
(including system ones).
NEEDS CLARIFICATION.

One can delete any existing MIDI Learn by
Ctrl-right-clicking on the
'Control Function' text for that line.
One is then presented with a confirmation message giving the line number and
the text as a reminder.
Adding or deleting lines, or changing either CC or channel numbers, will
re-order the lines.

The same CC/controller can be used to change several different
internal 'Yoshimi' controls.
For example, one can have a part's volume being changed while another part is
having an effect level changed.
(HOW IS THIS EFFECTED?)

Load.
Loads a set of MIDI Learn values from a file.
The extension of the file is ...?
If a loaded set refers to 'Yoshimi'
controls that are disabled, or don't exist, those controls will be ignored.
However the Block feature will still be active, unless the line is muted.

Save.
A complete list of MIDI Learn values
can be saved by clicking on the Save button; one then sees
the usual file-chooser window.

Recent.
This button is used for loading a set of
MIDI Learn values from the recent history.

Clear.
This button clears the entire learned list.

% To come:
% Paging of the display to avoid scrolling through a massive list.

