ADDSYNTH OSCILLATORS:
CONTROL NUMBERS:
COOKBOOK:
DIRECT CONTROL:
FLANGE:
FORMANT:
MIDI LEARN:
NUMBERING:
SOLO:  CHANNEL SWITCHING



To make it easier to position program change CCs in a MIDI file, there is a new
option to report the time these take to load.


COOKBOOK:

We implemented a simpler way to perform channel switching so the 'current' MIDI
instrument can seem to be changed instantly, but retaining the note tails of
the previous one.

When installed, full details are in either:
    /usr/local/share/doc/yoshimi/Yoshimi_1.4.1-features.txt

Since then I built an Arduino based controller with two foot switches,
specially for this. It stores a part number internally, then depending on which
switch I press, it increments or decrements the value and sends it via the
appropriate CC.

I used to (try to) play one of my compositions from a long time ago on a Yamaha
SY22, switching between voices. The timing was really critical, and it never
actually sounded good.

Anyway, yesterday I was playing it on Yoshimi so much my wrists were aching -
doing ten fast patch 'changes' totally seamlessly, with all proper note
releases and reverb tails.

Just messing about, at one point I was able to get all 10 of those parts
showing release tails at the same time in the mixer panel, and had a good
giggle!

Now I'm practising double and triple tapping the switches so I can jump
backwards or forwards across a full bank of 16 parts. It's just pure fun, and
so liberating for this wannabe live musician!

COOKBOOK?:

At any time you can silently perform a standard MIDI program change to any
non-sounding part. We have a demo vid on youtube that shows exactly this.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDIvkfoYYss

Also, on miniLAC2016 I demonstrated a much longer piece that was performing bank
*and* program changes all the way through.
Doing a program changed doesn't change the channel number the part is listening
to.

I'm fairly well known now as 'Mr Yoshimi' and got a few enquiries as to how
development was going. Also a couple of people commented very favourably on our
new demo:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzBy5tnDoBw


COOKBOOK:

Date: Wed, 16 Nov 2016 23:22:39 +0000
From: Will Godfrey <willgodfrey@musically.me.uk>
To: yoshimi@freelists.org
Subject: [yoshimi] Re: Help imitating synth
X-Mailer: Claws Mail 3.14.0 (GTK+ 2.24.31; x86_64-pc-linux-gnu)

I don't recommend trying to do that manually. It quickly gets tiring and is
quite hard to keep steady timing, especially while trying to sing as well.

If you start with SynthPiano/AnalogPiano3, once you have it loaded, click on the
'Edit' button. Then in the new window 'Effects'.

Click on the effect selector and from the dropdown list chose 'Echo'.

Adjust the 'Delay' control until the repeats come at the speed you want (if you
hold downs the ctrl key you get much finer control).
The 'Fb' control will decide how may repeats you hear before it fades out.

If you only want one repeat set it to zero.

If you want exactly 3 repeats do the same for effect number 2 but double the
delay time - might need to fiddle with this a bit.

Of course, as soon as you have it the way you want SAVE IT!




Finally, I haven't decided on the best format to save complete learn sets. It's
unlikely that it would be compatible with zyn. Apart from anything else we
provide a richer control set. I suppose someone could write some form of python
conversion script if they were really interested.


From: Jörn Eichler <joerneichler@gmx.net>
To: yoshimi@freelists.org
Subject: [yoshimi] Filter Frequency Key Tracking 100% value
User-Agent: KMail/4.13.3 (Linux/4.8.3-040803-generic; KDE/4.13.3; x86_64; ; )

I've been playing around with Yoshimi for some time, and I noticed, that there
seems to be no 100% setting for the filter cut-off frequency key tracking.
I'm using a band pass filter with high resonance on a noise to create a whistle
sound (like Tomita). But even setting the key tracking to maximum gives a
quite noticable detuning for pitches further away from the reference note.

127 is supposed to correspond to 100% on all controls, as they start out as
chars, although I agree this sounds sightly out.

Changing it creates a dilemma, as it changes peoples perception of the synth.
While making additions I've been very careful to avid changing the original
sounds. Rather than changing the existing controls I would be more inclined to
add a tracking range switch somewhere - if there was enough demand for it.
Maybe a *1.5 checkbox so you could maybe go beyond 100%

Finally, though I used the same technique myself for such a whistle, I
think you're actually better off using subsynth and fiddling the bandwidths.
For example just increase the bandwidth of the fundamental and add reverb :)

MIDI LEARN:

Now that we can cancel a learn (should have done that right away) there is a
extra button on the message window. It's also slightly larger and the message
text is slightly smaller. Oh, and the title bar is correctly identified now.

These new features are the first that actually change instrument files.
However, they are backwards compatible in that older versions of Yoshimi simply
ignore them.






NUMBERING:

????????????

Subject: yoshimi CLI

There is also state load and save from/to named file in there now :)


NUMBERING:


Oh, and loading vectors is now a 'soft' load like the others :)



COOKBOOK:

So here's a nice scenario that's possible for the first time.

Select any AddSynth based 'wind' instrument.
MIDI_learn the part's frequency LFO Freq. to an expression or volume controller
(with 'block' on)

MIDI_learn the same LFO depth to aftertouch.

Set limits to taste.

Dynamically play a wind controller :)





