From page 56

Page 66

"In parameter sets" should be "In patch sets" (twice)


Page 78

"Fine Control" no longer effective. Right click is now dedicated only to setting the default or requesting MIDI learn. The same applies to sliders.


Page 82

Filter parameters window now has an extra check box just above the gain control. This shifts the filter tracking range so that it is now possible to get exact pitch perfect tracking. At some point I need to re-arange this panel to make it more obvious (and neater).


Page 104

2nd paragraph should start "The mixer window...". As a style point, having once stated 'mixer panel' I would suggest only using 'mixer' from then on.


Page 106

'Loop' mode is a variation of 'Row' mode. It is set up in exactly the same way, but now sending *any* value via the designated CC will simply increment the active part number by one until it reaches 16, the next CC sent will then 'loop' back to part 1.

In the next release I am considering making this mode ignore a value of zero. This way, something like a MIDI sustain pedal could be used. Currently you would get in increment when you press such a pedal then another one when you release it :(


Page 107

Old keyboard image. It now has a slider instead of a roller for pitch wheel, and the keyboard map buttons are slightly different.


Page 109

No, the V keyboard doesn't send MIDI, in fact Yoshimi only ever receives MIDI messages and never sends them.


Page 136

"5. Midi" command description is orphaned to next page.

Also, other parts of Yoshimi (e.g. Solo) can set this to unresposive 'phantom' values. However this control can always over-ride such changes.


Page 138

"21. System Effect Sends"

A proportion of each system effect, as well as applying directly to the main L/R outputs can be sent to the next one in a daisy chain by these controls. e.g. in the top row if you set 1->3 to -20dB it will send a tenth of effect 1 to effect 3. If in the bottom row you then also set 3->4 to -20dB, effect number 4 will get a tenth of effect 3 added to it as well as 100th of effect 1.

Clever innit? :)


Page 144

Old image doesn't show D.Pop, and there is no description of it.
It adds a tiny variable attack ramp to reduce/eliminate clicks on note start - especially noticeable on instruments with a lot of reverb or echo.


Page 146

Description of panning reset button even though it's already been noted that it no longer exists?


Page 148

Old image doesn't show 'Bend' or 'Offset' and there's no description of these.

'Bend' adjusts the sensitivity of *only* this AddSynth voice to the pitch bend control.
'Offset' adjusts the starting frequency of the pitch bend control for this voice.

Never used either of these controls myself!


Page 152

Bottom of the page "Now the joker in the pack..." is wrong :(
My mistake, what actually happens is that if you disable the previous voice the Mod oscillator reverts to it's internal one.


page 158

Old image doesn't show 'modern' title bar text. Also, instead of the anonymous grey one, this one *does* have a red reset button for harmonic shift :)


Page 176

Old image doesn't show  'modern' title bar text. Also D.Pop, Bend & Offset.
Descriptions as in AddSynth.


Page 177

Old image doesn't show  'modern' title bar text. Also Bend & Offset.
Descriptions as in AddSynth.


Page 182

Old image doesn't show  'modern' title bar text. Also 'Min' key is now the same form as 'Max' key, and 'Close' button is now in the Yoshimi standard style.


Page 183

"Some items described..."
These have never actually existed, right back to Zyn 2.2.1 so I don't think they should be mentioned - it will only confuse people.


Page 184
Crossfade is correctly described, but the option list immediately above it doesn't include it!


Page 197
Confusion resulting from a misprint of mine :(

The line "Loaded 120 "Ghost Ensemble to Par 16" should refer to part 17. Also, later Parts 32 & 48 should be 33 & 49. Original docs will be corrected in the next push.


Page 198
Vector files will be saved wherever you decide - it usues the stock 'save' dialogue.



MIDI learn

MIDI, Midi, midi -> Argh!
I've had my knuckes rapped over the hitherto totally inconsistent way this has been written (all through Yoshimi actualy) and that for preference it should be 'MIDI' as it is an acronym not a noun. So that'as what I did for V 1.5.0 (I might have still missed some).


Page 200

CC min is 0
Chan range is 1 to 16 + All
Min and Max (orphanned) min values are 0

None of these have a default value as they will be initially decided by the learning process, and can all be freely edited later.


Page 201

'Block'
All MIDI CCs are now routed through MIDI learn before being passed on to the system CC decoding, and if a learned line is set to block, the designated CC for this channel number will not be passed on at all. This will have no effect on the same CC coming in on a different channel.

The learned list is always maintained fully sorted in ascending order of CC and within that, channel number. It is also scanned and acted on in that order. Therefore if you have several lines referring to the same CC/channel pair, if any of the earlier ones is set to 'block' then all the following ones on the same CC/channel will be blocked along with the system ones. This will have no effect on any later ones where *either* the CC or channel is different.

A combination of blocking and muting can be very useful when you are setting up complex learned lists and want to check that each individual line is behaving correctly.


Ran out of puff at page 205!
