http://forum.renoise.com/index.php/topic/34360-yoshimi-banks/

To change the \textsl{yoshimi} MIDI bank or program from within a sequencer:

A MIDI bank change is usually a CC#0 value of 0, followed by a CC#32 value of
X,where X is the desired bank number from 0 to whatever,
(However,in some cases may simply be a CC#0 on its own with a value of X).
Many synths also require that you send a program change after the bank change,
to select the program within the bank.  So, using directions that seem specific
to Renoise....

-Add a MIDI Control device to a track.
-Link the MIDI Control device to the instance of the ZynAddSubFx/Yoshimi
instrument.
-Expand the number of effect columns in the track to at least 5.
-Map the 1st MIDI Control device parameter to CC#0.
-Map the 2nd MIDI Control device parameter to CC#32.
-Map the 3rd MIDI Control device parameter to Prg-Change.

Now program the following commands into your pattern: (Assuming the MIDI
Control device is #1 in the chain):

1001 1100 1201 1302 1000

-1001 = turn the MIDI Control Device on
-1100 = set CC#0 to 0
-1201 = set CC#32 to 1 (0 = 1st bank, 1 = 2nd bank, 2 = 3rd bank, etc)
-1302 = set the program to 2 (0 = 1st program, 1 = 2nd program, 2 = 3rd
program,etc)
-1000 = turn the MIDI Control Device off

In this particular case, it's important to the turn the MIDI Control device off
againwhen you don't need it, otherwise it will not correctly transmit the
bank/programchanges the next time you need it.

------------------------------------------------------

Date:Mon, 06 Jul 2015 14:37:22 -0700                                             
From:Will J Godfrey <notifications@github.com>                                   
To:ahlstromcj/yoshimi-doc <yoshimi-doc@noreply.github.com>                       
Cc:"C. Ahlstrom" <ahlstromcj@gmail.com>                                          
Subject:Re: [yoshimi-doc] Yoshimi Docs (#1)                                      

A note on banks. You *really* need to move some of those out to a new root!
That'sa pretty crowded list. The limit is 128 and you seem to be half way       
there:)                                                                          

The numbers are generated the first time yoshimi sees a new root path or new      
banks within a root path.                                                         

Once set, these numbers will never change unless you actually move them
around using the 'swap' button.                                                          
The number is also the MIDI ID so you can be sure it will always be there
for bank changes no matter how many more banks you add later.

Yoshimi always lists these in ID order not alphabetical order, so you can
group them sensibly and permanently. However, at first time creation it
sets the IDs in alphabetical order and tries to space them evenly
over the range to give   you 'wiggle' room.                                                                
Using right mouse click often produces modified or alternate results,
especially in roots/banks/instruments. In Yoshi this is defined as
button number 2. Some distros/window managers have number 2 as
the middle button.        

----------------------------------------------------------

Date:Mon, 6 Jul 2015 16:30:11 +0100                                              
From:Will Godfrey <willgodfrey@musically.me.uk>                                  
To:yoshimi-user@lists.sourceforge.net                                            
Subject:[yoshimi-user] my answer to a recent enquiry. Thought it should be
here

Presets are loaded and saved via the copy/paste buffer (the blue C and P
icons). To be really useful you need to create a new directly path.
Probably the best location is in /home/{yourusername}/.config/yoshimi

After this, if you develop (say) a phaser sound you especially like, you can
copyit to the clipboard, and from there save it to a preset. You can then
pullit back whenever you want to.

Having said that, I hardly ever use it myself so had to try to remember how
it worked.

We save more of the data than Zyn does. Particularly, if you've loaded a
instrument into a part but then disabled it, when doing a parameter save we
will still include it along with the rest. Also we save all possible 64
parts if they contain an instrument, even if they are not currently used.
Any part with the default 'Simple Sound' will have nothing but the ID tag so
won't take up much space.

This discussion was had a long time ago, and it was generally agreed that
the increased size of an entire parameter set was relatively unimportant
compared with losing a sound that you might have temporarily disabled.

-----------------------------------------------------

Date:Wed, 8 Jul 2015 22:15:54 +0100                                              
From:Will Godfrey <willgodfrey@musically.me.uk>                                  
To:yoshimi-user@lists.sourceforge.net                                            
Subject:[yoshimi-user] Need a Youtube vid done                                   

I'vetried making a recording of yoshi in action but so far totally failed
toget anything like decent vid along with stereo sound.                       

WhatI especially wanted to do was make one of the demo I did on LAC.          

Forthis you need a 'bare' yoshimi with: bank root enabled as 0 (MSB),
bankchange as LSB, program change enabled, enable part on program
change.

Theonly other thing you need set up is the root path to the banks we supply
setto 9. On a self build this should be /usr/local/share/yoshimi/banks
Distroswill usually store it in  /usr/share/yoshimi/banks                        

Theattached MIDI file will then do all the magic stuff itself, and it looks
*really*impressive if you have the mixer panel open while it plays. I know
thisworks in Muse, I'm pretty sure it does in Ardour, not sure about
Qtractor.

Ifanyone wants the original Rosegarden file this was taken from, let me
know.Unfortunately Rosegarden can't correctly import MIDI files it has just
created:(

-----------------------------------------------------

http://www.soundonsound.com/forum/showflat.php?Number=1136384

Thanks to two programmers that have taken an interest in Yoshimi, things are
moving at a dramatic pace now. This version consolidates work that was begun
way back this time last year. For those interested it's available here and
below is the full description of the recent improvements.

The main feature of this release is the revision of instrument root
directories and banks.

In the first place, you no longer have the concept of a default root
directory, but a current one. This can by changed at any time without
requiring a re-start, so there is now no longer a need to display the
(confusing) contents of all roots at the same time. Also, roots now have ID
numbers associated with them, but no changes have been made to the actual
directories to achieve this. Instead the IDs are stored in the config file.
The same ID system is used for banks, again without making any file system
changes.

At first run (and whenever new root directories are set) unknown roots and
banks are given these IDs. Once set they will not change no matter how many
more roots and banks are later added. You can however, manually change root
directory IDs in 'settings'. Bank IDs can be changed via the config file,
and in the near future the GUI will be updated to also manage
this. With these IDs, roots and banks can be grouped/ordered by
function instead of alphabetically. When using the GUI you will
always know exactly which root and bank you fetch an instrument
from.

The significance of all this is that your MIDI sequencer can now reliably
use these ID numbers to select roots, banks and (already available)
instruments. That Rosegarden or Muse file you save today will be just as
valid in the future, unless you make the deliberate choice to change some
IDs. Indeed, you can now start with an 'empty' Yoshimi, and via MIDI, set
roots, banks and load instruments into parts (enabling the parts as you
do so) swapping banks and roots as necessary. While the MIDI file
runs it can silently pull instruments from any root/bank into any
non-sounding part without disturbing the playing ones.

In Yoshimi->Settings->CC you can enable or disable all these MIDI features,
and can define which CCs you want to use. Bank can be either MSB or LSB
(as before). Root can be any non-reserved CC but including the one not
currently in use for Bank. Also, Extended Program Change now has the same
restrictions as Root, and these three are all cross-checked against each
other. As an example you might set Bank to LSB and Root to 0 (MSB),
effectively giving you extended bank control compatible with all
sequencers.

Also, different instances have their own config files so that you can have
(say) the main instance with current root(9), bank(23) while instance 4 has
current root(2), bank(6). You can call up instances by number and thus
access saved settings for that instance. As each instance has its own MIDI
and audio ports, they can behave more-or-less independently.

In doing all of this we have completely changed the way we manage the
structure internally, resulting in much greater efficiency, at the cost of
only a slightly slower startup. Swapping roots performs *no* file
operations. Swapping banks only fetches the directory list of the newly
selected bank. Changing an instrument doesn't have to search for a file,
only load from its already known location.


Following on from that, we now have a startup splash image that appears
instantly so you always know Yoshimi has started even if some later error
causes it to abort. The actual image may change and we are still looking for
artwork (as mentioned elsewhere). We currently have 4 contributions.


So much for the high visibility stuff!

More work has been done on LV2, including integrating the new root and bank
controls.

The main window and the mixer panel are now fully in sync.

Ambiguities in instrument names have been resolved and Yoshimi will no
longer save unnamed or default instruments. If you load a Zyn (or older
Yoshimi) file that has unnamed instruments they will be given the name
'No Title'.

You are now prevented (with an explanation) from attempting to change a bank
entry in a non-writeable area. Previously it would seem you had done so, but
the changes would not (of course) have been saved to file - this goes back
very many years!

And... a few bug fixes - where do they come from?



